Honestly logs searching tends
to be a drag often doesn't work.
If I can spend one minute looking at the
logs to find a bug that could take me two
hours to find, of course, I'll always make
that trade off while shot in the dark, but
most of the time you have
to do this git bisect.
Okay, good.
Sometimes I have like spelling work
problems and specifically bisect, I can
never tell if I've spelt it correctly or
incorrectly.
Bisect works by searching through,
gits commits for you and
you get to mark if something's good or
bad, however you decide it's good and
bad, and then it will do the legwork to
determine which commit you should look at.
So it's pretty clever.
There's some unique properties
that make this true.
All commits are ordered.
I've been saying this.
I intentionally said this, is that
the order of commits is effectively time,
which means that if I go back one commit,
that commit should be
further back in time.
And so
you can kind of see how that would work.
That means if I go halfway back,
I've gone halfway through effectively our
project's life cycle of some sort,
if they're evenly spaced out.
So everything is in order, which means
it kind of acts like an ordered array,
correct?
In some sense, yeah.
It's like an ordered array.
Another thing that you need to have for
bisect is that you need
to know the two changes.
It doesn't matter how far apart they're,
let's just say you know that it's
currently broken, so you go back 1000
commits and it's working, that's fine.
You just need a point in time
in which there's two changes.
That's it.
So,
let's talk about property one cuz
I think it's really interesting.
If it currently fails, and you go back
10 commits, and it's still failing.
What can you say about the going back
9 commits is gonna pass or fail?
>> Fail.
>> How about eight commits?
Fail, seven commits, fail, six,
five, four, three, two, one.
All of them are going to fail, right?
That's the idea of git bisect
is that due to time and
assuming that the bug isn't some weird
hyzen bug floating in and out of space,
you should be able to quickly
go to the correct solution.
So to kind of put it visually, if you had
commit A and commit B and you have no idea
where it's failing at, if you pick
the middle commit C and you test it.
If C works,
what can you say about this graph.
>> The problem lies between C,
I think, whatever followed it.
>> C, and B, right?
You've cut the space in half where
the problem could be, right?
Yay.
Or yeah.
The problem lies by, to say it inverted,
A through C is good and
this other side is unknown.
And so the exact opposite's true
given the exact same situation again.
If C fails, what can we say?
Well, we can say that between C and
B, it's bad.
Between C and A, we just don't know yet,
so we don't know if it's good or bad.
We just know it's bad at C, so
it's bad all the way up to B.
That means we can cut half
the space every single search.
This is the fundamental for binary search.
If you think about a binary tree,
walking binary tree is the exact
same principle in general.
This we're just doing it
with commits instead.
>> Does using bisect make an argument
against rebase since it needs to be
in order?
>> No
>> Rebates.
It's about your history of your branch.
I mean, you,
you've moved your stuff forward, but
at some point it's committed and
it's in the branch or it's in.
So yeah, if you move your stuff forward
and you test it and it's still broken,
then [SOUND] it's broken until
you find the working commit,
it doesn't really change anything.
Alright, by the way,
I don't know if you know this, but
Front End Masters has
a free algorithm course.
I heard the guy that teaches it,
it's pretty cool.
That's what I've been told.
Kind of sounds like Gilbert Gottfried
though, or Charlie Day, Wish Charlie Day.
Yeah, that's another one that someone said
to me and it really hurt my feelings.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Anyways, it's fully free.
Hashtag ad everybody, hashtag ad.
Okay, so some pros.
You don't need to know
anything about the bug.
You don't need to rely on commit messages
you don't need to rely on anything other
than a way to test to see if
it is working or not working.
The fastest way to search assorted space
is via cutting the space in half every
single time there's not a faster way
unless if you have some sort of hash map
in which you know where the good and
better unless it's hash mapping.
You don't have to search only for a bug,
say there's a performance regression.
Say there's a performance improvement.
Say there's anything and
you want to find it happening.
If you have a test that you can prove
that it does and doesn't happen,
you can bisect your way to
the commit that changed, whatever.
So it's a way to do change
detection more than anything else.
The only con is that if it
takes a lot of time to test and
you could do some alternative
means to find the change,
maybe a quick log search would be your
best friend just to give a shot in
the dark as opposed to having to deal with
bisect for hours if it takes a long time.
Anyways, so you get the idea.
So when you cut space in half,
it's log of n.
So it takes seven searches
to go through 128 commits,
one search to go through one commit,
right?
So it doesn't grow very fast at all.
Grows logarithmically.
It's very fantastic.
All right, so the basics of bisect,
all you do is you say, get bisect start.
Then you say, get bisect bad saying,
hey, the current commits bad.
Then you select a good commit.
And then at that point you test and
you just tell it whether it's good or bad.
Just start checking out stuff until it
gets to the exact point in which it found
the error.
So you just keep on doing this over and
over again until it stops.
So we're gonna do the exact same thing.
We're gonna take the first commit of the
repo and the current tip of master, and
we're gonna try to find
where does it break.
So, git bisect start,
step 1, then get bisect bad.
So I'm saying this commit
is the bad commit.
Now we need to get the very
first commit of the repo.
There's a lot of different ways to do it.
So I'll just go like this,
git log or one line.
This is just very, very easy.
There it is right there.
So I'll just copy this
one out the b56ed57and
then go git bisect good right there.
So I'm just gonna search the entire
repo from beginning to end.
There we go.
It says bisecting 11 revisions,
roughly four steps.
So, is this one good or bad?
I'll go like this, NPM run test
>> I wanna say binary search so
much when you're talking about that.
I was just like, it's right there.
>> It's right there.
>> [LAUGH]
>> All right, look at that, it failed.
Okay, by the way, NPM run, it doesn't run
it once it just keeps it on watch mode
because Vitest default
apparently is watch.
So, that means we need to go,
git bisect bad.
And there it goes.
There's five provisions left.
Roughly three steps.
Look at that.
This one passed.
Fantastic.
So I'll say, git bisect good.
All right, two revisions left.
Roughly two steps.
Let's run test.
All right, look at that, it passed.
So we'll do a little git bisect good.
And now there are zero revisions left.
This is the last step.
I'll run it once more,
and now either the commit I'm on
is the good one or the bad one.
And so it's able to tell if it's good,
that means the next commit over is the bad
one, the offending commit, the bad change.
Or this is the offending change and so
be able to tell with this last test.
I refuse to get rebased this therapy is
we will experience the weight together.
All right, so this one failed so
I just gotta go like
this git bisect bad and,
[FOREIGN] right there.
It says it right here.
It says apparently zero steps left which
is a little suspicious.
Okay, well we gotta run
the test once more apparently.
I'm not exactly sure why
this one went this way.
In all the times I did it,
it was actually done after four of them.
But I guess we're gonna wait,
one last 30 seconds for k 972 FA2A.
Well look at that, git bisect bad.
So it tells you right here,
this one is what went wrong,
and this is the commit,
in fact, which went wrong.
So I was able to go through and we're able
to kind of find where the problem was.
But here's the deal.
Was that kind of annoying,
like not a fun experience?
I'm gonna scroll all the way through this.
You can automate it.
So we'll let's do it again, but
this time said the word run to it.
Okay, so I'm gonna go here and
I'm gonna go,
let's see, git status, git bisect reset.
We're back at the tip.
So now we just gotta go like this,
git bisect start, git bisect bad, and
git bisect good right here,
then go git bisect run.
And then I think it's, what is it?
It's node modules
bin by test run.
If you do dash dash run it doesn't try to
watch therefore we'll just quit, right?
We'll do that, and
now all we have to do is just wait.
It's a little bit of waiting.
By the way, I see some people saying
they didn't know that this existed.
This is why it's really good to
always just do a quick little
run through of the friendly manual or
a couple get searches.
And just kind of know how the things
work or how people use it,
because often you'll find that you're
doing something fairly inefficient when
the better thing is just
right around the corner.
Look at this.
Hey, look at that, it found the commit.
Look at that.
We didn't even do anything.
Found the commit right here.
How nice is that?
So bisect run is like really nice.
You should definitely use bisect run if
you have a problem especially if it can be
boiled down to a quick test to run.
Mwah, beautiful, right?